President Obama:
Hello, everybody.
I'm speaking to you today from a
Chrysler plant in Toledo, Ohio,
where I just met with
workers, including Jill Opial.
Jill was born and
raised here in Toledo.
Her mom and stepfather
retired from this plant.
She met her husband here, and
now they have two children
of their own.
This plant has not only been
central to the economy of this
town, it's been a part of the
lifeblood of this community.
Now, the reason I came to Toledo
was to congratulate Jill and her
co-workers on the turnaround
they helped bring about at
Chrysler and throughout
the auto industry.
Today, each of the Big
Three automakers --
Chrysler, GM, and Ford -- is
turning a profit for the first
time since 2004.
Chrysler has repaid every
dime and more of what it owes
American taxpayers for their
support during my presidency --
and it repaid that money six
years ahead of schedule.
And this week, we reached a deal
to sell our remaining stake.
And that means soon, Chrysler
will be 100% in private hands.
Most importantly, all three
American automakers are now
adding shifts and creating jobs
at the strongest rate since
the 1990s.
Chrysler has added a second
shift at the Jefferson North
plant in Detroit that
I visited last year.
GM is adding a third shift at
its Hamtramck plant for the
first time ever.
And GM plans to hire back all
of the workers they had laid off
during the recession.
That's remarkable when you
think about where we were just a
couple of years ago.
When I took office, we were
facing the worst recession since
the Great Depression -- a
recession that hit our auto
industry particularly hard.
In the year before
I was President,
this industry lost
more than 400,000 jobs,
and two great, iconic American
companies, Chrysler and GM,
stood on the brink of collapse.
Now, we had a few options.
We could have done what a lot of
folks in Washington thought we
should do -- nothing.
But that would have made a
bad recession worse and put a
million people out of work.
I refused to let that happen.
So I said, if GM and Chrysler
were willing to take the
difficult steps of restructuring
and making themselves more
competitive, the American
people would stand by them --
and we did.
But we decided to do more than
rescue this industry from crisis
-- we decided to help it
retool for a new age,
and that's what we're doing
all across the country --
we're making sure America
can out-build, out-innovate,
and out-compete the
rest of the world.
That's how we'll build an
economy where you can see your
incomes and savings rise again,
send your kids to college,
and retire with dignity,
security, and respect.
That's how we'll make sure we
keep that fundamental American
promise -- that if you work
hard and act responsibly,
you'll be able to pass on
a better life to your kids
and your grand kids.
Now, we've got a ways to go.
Even though our economy has
created more than two million
private sector jobs over the
past 15 months and continues to
grow, we're facing
some tough headwinds.
Lately, it's high gas prices,
the earthquake in Japan,
and unease about the
European fiscal situation.
That's going to happen
from time to time.
There are going to be bumps
on the road to recovery.
We know that.
But we also know what's happened
here, at this Chrysler plant.
We know that hardworking
Americans like Jill helped turn
this company and
this industry around.
That's the American story.
We're a people who
don't give up --
who do big things, who
shape our own destiny.
And I'm absolutely confident
that if we hold on to that
spirit, our best days
are still ahead of us.
Thanks for tuning in,
and have a great weekend.